The web page http://graph-drawing.acadiau.ca/ should have links to
pre-compiled versions of this software for various operating systems.
If you don't find one that works for you, or if you prefer to compile
from source, instructions which may get you going are found below.

Should you wish or need to compile Graphic from source, the
instructions below ask you to install Qt.  Your operating system 
supplier may have packages ready for you to install Qt 5.15.0 (or
newer), and, if so, that is likely to be the easiest way to get
going.  If there is a choice of packages, install the "development"
package, which may have "dev" or "development" as part of the name.

If your operating system supplier does not supply development packages
for Qt5.15.0 (or newer), to compile Graphic from source you will need
to need to download and install Qt yourself.  There are currently two
ways to do this.

(a) If you have some expertise with compiling software from source,
    you can visit https://www.qt.io/offline-installers and download
    the Qt source code package.  Then you can compile Qt and install
    it on your system.  This approach is not recommended for people
    without considerable software development experience.

(b) Visit https://www.qt.io/download-qt-installer and click the
    download button near the bottom of the page.  This will download a
    program suitable for your operating system.  When you run this
    program it will guide you through the process of installing Qt on
    your system.
    At time of writing, note that using this program requires you to
    create a (free) Qt account, but you do not need to specify a
    company name.

    A few screens in, the installation program will display a "Select
    Components" screen.  Click the triangle to open the Qt 5.15.1 (or
    newer) menu.  For Linux, select the "Desktop gcc 64-bit" check box.
    Near the bottom of the window you can see how much disk space the
    installation will take; make sure you have enough free disk space.
    Then select "Next", where you will be asked to accept their
    license.  After accepting the license, you get a screen with an
    Install button, which you should press to complete the
    installation.


To compile (and optionally install) Graphic on Linux:
-----------------------------------------------------
0. Download the source files found here.
1. Install the Qt5 package for your version of Linux
   -> you must install the development tools, so if you have a choice
      to just select a "run-time" package, do not pick that one.
   If there is no suitable package for your Linux distribution,
   install Qt as described above.
2. If you have an older Qt4-based Linux distribution, or you aren't
   sure which Qt version is the primary one for your distribution,
   try running
      qmake-qt5
   If your distribution uses Qt5, or the above didn't work, run
      qmake
3. Assuming that is all good (i.e., no error messages show up), run
      make
   or optionally, if you want to keep many of your CPUs busy,
      make -j 8
   On a fast-ish CPU the latter should finish in 10 or 15 seconds.
4. The executable is the program "Graphic" in the directory from which
   you ran "qmake" or "qmake-qt5".
   You can "install" Graphic by copying it to the directory of your
   choice, such as
      /usr/local/bin
   or (if you already have your own "bin" directory)
      $HOME/bin


To compile (and optionally install) Graphic on MacOS:
-----------------------------------------------------
0. Download the source files found here.
1. Install Qt5
   -> you must install the Qt development tools, not just the run-time
      support.
   If you have "brew" (https://brew.sh/) installed on your MacOS
   system, you can simply run the following command (from a terminal
   window) to install the Qt command-line tools:
      brew install qt
   Otherwise install Qt as described above.
2. Run
      qmake
3. Clean up old versions of files:
      make clean ; rm -rf Graphic.app graphic.dmg
4. Assuming that is all good, run
      make
   or optionally, if you want to keep many of your CPUs busy
      make -j 8
   On a fast-ish CPU the latter should finish in 10 or 15 seconds.
5. The executable is the program "Graphic" in the directory
      Graphic.app/Contents/MacOS
   If you wish, you can create a .dmg file with the command
      macdeployqt graphic.app -dmg
   which should create "graphic.dmg" in this directory.


To compile (and optionally install) Graphic on Windows 10:
----------------------------------------------------------
0. Download the source files found here.
1. Install Qt5
   -> you must install the Qt development tools, not just the run-time support.
   If you can not find a Qt package for your system from a known
   reliable source, install Qt as described above.
2. Install Visual Studio for access to MSVC and nmake.
3. From the developer command prompt for MSVC, run
      qmake
4. If no errors are reported, run
      nmake
   For qmake or nmake to work, you will likely need to add to your PATH
   variable both the build location and the Qt bin folder for your
   environment found in this directory path
      Qt/version/enviroment/bin/
5. The executable is the program "Graphic" in the build directory.
   You can "install" it by copying it to the directory of your choice.




If the above instructions for your operating system did not work, or if
none apply, the following generic instructions might get you going.

To compile (and optionally install) Graphic through QT Creator:
---------------------------------------------------------------
0. Download the source files found here.
1. Download and install Qt as described near the top of this file.
   -> you must install the Qt development tools, not just the run-time
   support.
2. Open Graphic.pro in Qt Creator, select your environment when prompted,
   press configure project, and then run Build.
3. The executable is the program "Graphic" in the folder called
      "build-Graphic-Desktop_Qt"
4. Depending on your machine, you may need to move the executable
   (i.e., Graphic or Graphic.exe) from the build directory to the bin
   of the environment you chose in this directory path:
      Qt/version/environment/bin/
   or add that bin directory and the build folder to your PATH variable.
5. Optionally, create a symbolic link (or shortcut) to the directory
   of your choice.





-----------------------------------------------------

Other OSes:

I have no other OSes on any of my computers with which to compile
Graphic.  If you compile the sources for another OS and wish to share
your knowledge, please e-mail me (Jim Diamond) the details of what you
did.  (See the e-mail link found at http://graph-drawing.acadiau.ca/.)
